---
title: 'Gardening in June 2023'
description: 'What happened in June 2023?'
date: 2023-09-01
heroImage: '/images/default.jpg'
heroAlt:
#head:
#  - [
#      meta,
#      {
#        rel: canonical,
#        href: url,
#      },
#    ]
category:
  - Gardening
#tag:
article: false
---

[< Back to the table of contents](./README.md) | [Go to May](2023-05.md) | [Go to July >](2023-07.md)

This month, we had a much cooler weather compared to last year, having also more rain.

The 3 rain water tanks were available all month near the garden to water every 2 to 3 days.

To put in comparaison, last year, we were watering from the netwok water in May already!

In term of crops,

- I plant 2 cucumber plants that a colleague gave me
- The echinacea plants are going to put on some flowers soon
- The curry pumpkins are thriving, as usual, we needed not to do anything. They just came out of the compost pile!
- The almond schrubs are well and putting on a good-sized trunk.

  - I am not sure what we will do with them.
    - I think we'll keep the strong ones and it will create shade in a few years.
    - The area is not year prepared for gardening, but having trees seem to be a good idea

- The corn is growing tall (more than 1m50)

  - Some however were "attacked" by the baddgers...
  - It seems that the fencing I installed it not preventing them to enter.
  - Maybe, next year, we will invest into a night vision camera...

- The raspbberries have started to put on some flowers.
- The blackcurrents and goseberries gave us a few fruits.
- The kiwai wine is healthy and well, with fruits getting bigger by the day.

I harvested at the end of the nettle seeds (about 150 g after we dried them).

I like to eat them raw as well, but I want to have everyone to enjoy their benefits (proteins, nutrients, etc) mixed and grinned with sesame or sunflower seeds.
