---
title: 'Gardening in March 2023'
description: 'What happened in March 2023?'
date: 2023-09-01
heroImage: '/images/default.jpg'
heroAlt:
#head:
#  - [
#      meta,
#      {
#        rel: canonical,
#        href: url,
#      },
#    ]
category:
  - Gardening
#tag:
article: false
---

[< Back to the table of contents](./README.md) | [Go to February](2023-02.md) | [Go to April >](2023-04.md)

## March 5th

The compost bins are pretty full, but it is lacking rain to bring moisture!

Also, I came to discover a place 10 min from home where they sale ready-to-use bulk compost for 45 euros a ton. It is twice as expensive as the one in Lavilledieu, but it is much closer (13km round trip) and I won't need to rent a truck. Or at least, I won't need to rent it as long.

All the garlic has come out or is coming out and it looks good and healthy.

The fact we planted some in November and some in January means we will have a spread harvest,

- some to pick as green garlic to eat in the spring
- and some mature garlic to dry and eat during the year.

:::warning Add pic for march 5th
:::

So far so good: the broad bean plantsgrow taller by the day and I see flowers appearing.

:::warning Add pictures
:::

Nothing major to say about the strawberries, the plants are still there. They probably need some warmth to grow more.

About the sweet peas,

- We sowed 48 modules with 1 seed in potting compost
- The kind is **to replace** and is a crop that produce a lot.
- We tried in 2021, but the badgers challenged us and we didn't get a lot as we had to replant 3 times the peas!
- They are installed under the old windows to offer double protection until that are tall enought to transplant.

About the radishes,

- I used 4 15-slot egg box to sow very old radish seeds.
- I'm not sure it will work since the seed are over 8 year old!

About garden design,

- I haven't use _Terra Potager_ much so far, because I need to mesure the garden beds.
- However, I've built a new bed small bed under the oak tree which welcomes some garlic.
- I also installed today some of the old windows to build some kind of greenhouse for the radishes and sweet peas.

The kiwai vines have a lot of buds, even the newly planted one.

It will be critical to water them enough to preserve them.

The cherry tree shows beautiful buds as well :) Watering is critical to keep alive, especially because it is located where the sun will hit hard.

Maybe, I'll build a pergola structure to provide some shade, maybe not a full-sized pergola, but one made out of pallet wood.

:::warning Add pic for march 5th
:::

## March 6th

Aurélie and the girls sowed 48 modules with 1 seed in potting compost

We used the little greenhouses I bought in 2021.

They are installed under the old windows to offer double protection.

## March 7th

Aurélie and the girls planted swiss chards from very old seeds.

## March 19th

I transplanted the sweet peas between the garlic bed located in the south of the garden.

It was hard to get the seedlings out. I was surprised about that but the roots were quite big. I managed to pull the seedlings with only a couple looses.

## March 26th

I transplanted the 4 season lettuces with the garlic bed under the almond tree.

Similarly to the sweet peas, it was hard to get the seedlings out. I had to be more careful because the stem of the lettuce were much thiner and I couldn't pull on them.

So I used the small spoon that came with the green houses.

Today, I sowed more vegetables:

- 2 tiny greenhouses of lamb's lettuce
- 2 tiny greenhouses of mesclun lettuce
- 1 tiny greenhouse of swiss chards from very old seeds, so it might not lead to successul sprouting
- 4 medium modules with watermelons

[< Back to the table of contents](./README.md) | [Go to February](2023-02.md) | [Go to April >](2023-04.md)
